DATE Tuesday, 3 February 2026 | Vol 96, Sitting No 15 | type WA | qno None
TITLE: MAS and Life Insurance Association of Singapore (LIAS) Collaboration on Clinical Guidance for Insurance Medical Record Disclosure Context Requirements for Claims
SUB: None

12 Dr Haresh Singaraju asked the Coordinating Minister for Social Policies and Minister for Health in view of the requirement for clinicians to disclose only information relevant to an insurance claim to insurers, whether the Ministry can provide guidance on how clinicians shall disclose patient medical records to insurers when (i) the insurance request forms do not state what the claims are for (ii) requests are made for all medical records of claimants.
13 Dr Haresh Singaraju asked the Coordinating Minister for Social Policies and Minister for Health whether the Ministry will work with MAS and the Life Insurance Association of Singapore to ensure that insurance request forms provide sufficient context for clinicians to determine what information is relevant to disclose. 
Mr Ong Ye Kung: Under the Healthcare Services Act (HCSA), licensees including clinicians are required to: (a) maintain the confidentiality of every patient health record; and (b) protect patient health records from unauthorised access, disclosure, copying or use. In addition, the Health Information Bill strictly prohibits access to the National Electronic Health Record (NEHR) for insurance related purposes.
Where the purpose of the insurer's information request is unclear, clinicians should request for and the insurer should provide, clarifications to ensure relevant information is provided. Clinicians should prepare separate medical memos or clinical summaries for the insurer, based on their own clinical records. They must not access NEHR for such purposes. 
The Ministry of Health (MOH) has clarified these matters through a circular issued to all licensees under the HCSA. With the Monetary Authority of Singapore's support, MOH also issued a guidance note to insurers on the above-mentioned, as well as the appropriate practices and scope when requesting patient medical records from clinicians. We expect insurers to ensure that their practices are aligned with the guidance.
